Git = a distributed version control system

At it's core, git is like a key value store

key = the hash of the data. This is a SHA-1 function.
value = the data to be stored

The data provided will generate a 40 digit hexadecimal number.

This is also called a content addressable storage system, because the content generates the key.

Git stores data via blobs. They contain metadata about the blob itself, the size of the content,
  the delimiter and the actual content.

Git cannot store empty directories. This is because of a limitation in the staging area.

The reason why we can change branches so fast is because of git's key value storage design.
  1. A file that has the same content contains the same hash.
  2. When you switch from one branch to another, instead of having to fetch all the same files again
      whatever files have the same hash value as the one in your current branch remain the same.
  3. Files that are new or different are fetched. This way, git can quickly switch branches.

deltas => the changes between the previous version of your file and the new version
A Packfile stores the new object, and the deltas (the changes from the previous version).

Commits:

A commit points to a tree.

It contains metadata like:
 1. The author and commiter
 2. The date
 3. The message
 4. The parent commit.

The sha1 of the commit is the hash of all this info.

The three types of objects are the blob, the tree and the  commit.


PRIMEAGEN COURSE:

Short cuts to navigate the man pages:

j goes one line down
k goes one line up
d goes one half page down
u goes one half page up
/<term> will search for term
n goes to next search term
N goes to prev search term

Centralized version control:
You have your version of a file, which if you check out, can no longer be edited by anyone else,
  until you check the file in again.

Porcelain commands => high-level and plumbing commands => low-level

Commit = A point in time that represents the project in its entirety.
A commit represents the entire codebase.
The SHA is calculated by the author, date, contents of change and more.

Key terms:
index and staging are 2 interchangeable terms.

When you run git add, the files you add are hashed and stored as objects in the staging area,
  ready to be commited.

squash => To take multiple commits (say N), and "squash" them into 1 (or N - 1, or N - 2 and so on).

untracked -> staged -> tracked

remote => The same project repo, somewhere on another computer, from which you can push
  or pull changes from/to.

git is an acyclic graph. 

The .git folder contains all of the state and information of the git repo.

